Agent diagnostics (#5254)
elastic/docs-content: troubleshoot/ingest/fleet/diagnostics.md

---

# Capture {{agent}} diagnostics [agent-diagnostic]

Elastic's diagnostic tools capture point-in-time snapshots of {{fleet}} and {{agent}} related statistics and logs. They work against all product versions.

Their information can be used to troubleshoot problems with your setup. You can generate diagnostic information using this tool before [escalating to us](/troubleshoot/ingest/fleet/fleet-elastic-agent.md#troubleshooting-intro-escalate) to minimize turnaround time.

## Which information do I need? [agent-diagnostic-type]

As explained under [What is {{fleet}} Server?](/reference/fleet/fleet-server.md), for [{{fleet}}-managed {{agent}}](/reference/fleet/install-fleet-managed-elastic-agent.md), related settings and states can by surfaced by:

* {{kib}} from the [{{kib}} {{fleet}} APIs](/reference/fleet/fleet-api-docs.md)
* {{agent}} and {{fleet}} from their [command reference](/reference/fleet/agent-command-reference.md)

[Standalone {{agent}}s](/reference/fleet/install-standalone-elastic-agent.md) are not associated to {{kib}} nor {{fleet}}, but their diagnostics are still accessible from the CLI.

To pull data from the respective applicable locations, you will refer to:

> * [Capture {{kib}} diagnostics](/troubleshoot/kibana/capturing-diagnostics.md) {applies_to}`stack: ga` 

Reviewer: We already have a page-level `applies_to`, and the `applies_to` in this list of items does not differ from the page-level one.
```suggestion
* [Capture {{kib}} diagnostics](/troubleshoot/kibana/capturing-diagnostics.md)
```

  3. Docker [`cp`](https://docs.docker.com/reference/cli/docker/container/cp/) the outputted diagnostic filename to your local machine, replacing placeholders `CONTAINER_ID` and `FILE_NAME`.

    ```shell
    docker cp CONTAINER_ID:/usr/share/elastic-agent/FILE_NAME FILE_NAME
    ```

* Kubernetes

  1. Determine the container ID with [`get`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/generated/kubectl_get/).

    ```shell
    kubectl get pods --all-namespaces | grep agent
    ```

  2. Run the diagnostic with [`exec`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/generated/kubectl_exec/), replacing placeholders `NAMESPACE` and `POD_NAME`.

    ```shell
    kubectl exec --stdin --tty POD_NAME -n NAMESPACE -- elastic-agent diagnostics
    ```

    Take note of the output diagnostic filename and location. 

  3. [`cp`](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/kubectl/generated/kubectl_cp/) the outputted diagnostic filename to your local machine, replacing placeholders `NAMESPACE`, `POD_NAME`. and `FILE_NAME`.

    ```shell
    kubectl cp NAMESPACE/POD_NAME:FILE_NAME FILE_NAME
    ```

### Sanitize [agent-diagnostics-sanitize]

> {{agent}} attempts to automatically redact credentials and API keys when creating [its diagnostic files](/reference/fleet/agent-command-reference.md#elastic-agent-diagnostics-command). Review the contents of the archive before sharing to ensure that all forms of organizationally-private information is censored as needed. For example, ensure:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{agent}} attempts to automatically redact credentials and API keys when creating [its diagnostic files](/reference/fleet/agent-command-reference.md#elastic-agent-diagnostics-command). Review the contents of the archive before sharing it to ensure that all forms of organizational private information is censored as needed. For example, ensure:
```
